Mascellaneous Topic:

Projection: Is something when you want project something, or means choosing which colums or expressions the query shall return.
Or dispaly particular columns based on the user request.


E.g; write a query to display name and USN of the student whose age is greater than 21.

select name,usn from student where age = 21;

Selection: Means which rows to be returned.
or selection is the process of displaying the result of using select queries.

E.G: write a query to display all the information of student named "Darwish"
select * from student where name = "darwish";


Case Sensitity in SQL.
The SQL keyword are case-insensitive (select, from, where, as, order by, having, group by), but are usually written in all capitals.

1.Keywords in SQL in not case sensitive.
2. Table names in SQL are not case sensitive.
3. Column names in SQL are not case sensitive.
4. Data in SQL is case sensitive. E.G to record in a table with different writting in small and capital letters.


E.G: select name,age from student where name = 'RAVI';


Datataypes: A data type specifies a particular type of data, such as integer, floating-point, boolean etc.

A data type also specifies the possible values for that type, the operation that can be performed on the type and the way the values of that type are stored.

Char: fixed-length character data of lenght of bytes.
varchar: varaibles-length character data A maximum size must be specified.
varchar2: varaible-length characater data. A maximum size must be specified.

Number: in number data type we have two keyword Precision and Scale.
Variables-length numeric data. Range of P: from 1 38, Range of S: from -84 to 127.


Float: A subtyoe of the number datatype having precision P. the precision p can range from 1 to 12 binayr digits.

Date: Fixed-length data and time data, valid data range: from January 1, 4712 BC, to December 31, 9999 AD.


Concatnation in SQL:
 e.g: select ename,sal+2000 from emp;
 select ename,sal+ 5000 from emp;
 select ename,job,sal from emp;
 select ename,sal+12 from emp where ename = 'Sasan';

or joining two things or to combining multiple column.

e.G: select ename || job from emp;
     select ename || ' Hello ' job from emp;


Column Alisa: Temporary name to a particular table or emp name.
Two method for performing this action.

E.G:select ename as emp_name,job,sal,hiredate as emp_date from emp;


Distinct Keyword: distinct data not the repeat it one or iterate data.


Dual table: is a default table which given defaulty by oracle.
Dual is kind of practise table where you can correct your query and then run it on the server.

e.g: select sysdate from dual;





